Let's bring everything together,
and look at how you will
use the reward model in
the reinforcement
learning process
to update the LLM weights,
and produce a human
aligned model.
Remember, you want to
start with a model that
already has good performance
on your task of interests.
You'll work to align an
instruction finds you and LLM.
First, you'll pass a prompt
from your prompt dataset.
In this case, a dog is,
to the instruct LLM,
which then generates
a completion,
in this case a furry animal.
Next, you sent this completion,
and the original prompt to
the reward model as the
prompt completion pair.
The reward model
evaluates the pair
based on the human feedback
it was trained on,
and returns a reward value.
A higher value such
as 0.24 as shown
here represents a more
aligned response.
A less aligned response
would receive a lower value,
such as negative 0.53.
You'll then pass
this reward value
for the prom completion pair to
the reinforcement
learning algorithm to
update the weights of the LLM,
and move it towards
generating more
aligned, higher
reward responses.
Let's call this
intermediate version of
the model the RL updated LLM.
These series of steps together
forms a single iteration
of the RLHF process.
These iterations continue
for a given number of epics,
similar to other
types of fine tuning.
Here you can see that the
completion generated by
the RL updated LLM receives
a higher reward score,
indicating that the
updates to weights
have resulted in a more
aligned completion.
If the process is working well,
you'll see the reward improving
after each iteration
as the model
produces text that is
increasingly aligned
with human preferences.
You will continue this iterative
process until your model
is aligned based on some
evaluation criteria.
For example, reaching
a threshold value
for the helpfulness you defined.
You can also define a
maximum number of steps,
for example, 20,000 as
the stopping criteria.
At this point, let's refer to
the fine-tuned model as
the human-aligned LLM.
One detail we haven't
discussed yet is
the exact nature of the
reinforcement learning algorithm.
This is the algorithm
that takes the output
of the reward model and uses it
to update the LLM
model weights so
that the reward score
increases over time.
There are several different
algorithms that you can
use for this part of
the RLHF process.
A popular choice is proximal
policy optimization
or PPO for short.
PPO is a pretty
complicated algorithm,
and you don't have to
be familiar with all
of the details to be
able to make use of it.
However, it can be
a tricky algorithm to
implement and understanding
its inner workings in
more detail can help you
troubleshoot if you're having
problems getting it to work.
To explain how the PPO
algorithm works in more detail,
I invited my AWS colleague,
Ek to give you a deeper dive
on the technical details.
This next video is optional
and you should feel
free to skip it,
and move on to the
reward hacking video.
You won't need the
information here to
complete the quizzes
or this week's lab.
However, I encourage
you to check out
the details as RLHF is becoming
increasingly important
to ensure that
LLMs behave in a safe and
aligned manner in deployment.